King of the hill: the idea that explicit and implicit strategies are continuously vying for dominance over each other. 

The motor system and its respective internal forward and inverse models are intentionally adverse to mastery (i.e., perfect mimicry) because
the motor system knows that it is extremely difficult to "unlearn" a procedurized skill. Following the logic that a very stable system is 
difficult to remodel, the motor system intentionally leaves some room (room refers to gap before perfect mastery) for potential future changes
to a specific model.

Humans alternate and transition between phases where explicit and implicit strategies are dominant. 

Example for implicit dominance : Shooting a basket ball into a net at practice (assume skill is proceduralized)

Example for explicit dominance : Shooting a basket ball into a net while the girl of your dreams is watching (e.g., choking due to explicit 
                                 strategy interferring with implicit strategy.
                                 
Although explicit dominance may seem counter productive, its presence may be the motor system's way to continuously probe for changes/weaknesses
in existing models that the implicit strategies are based on.


Example 1: Feedforward contraction of bicep/anterior deltoids

  While outside the rotation room, a contraction of the bicep results in a straight trajectory, implicit is dominant and explicit is non-existant because 
  the solution provided by the internal model is sufficient for achieving objective 
  
  In the rotation room, while under the effects of the force field, participants notice a contraction of the bicep results in a curved trajectory.
  the explicit strategy now attempts to induced changes to remodel internal models. The influence of implicit strategy is diminished due to 
  the end goal not being met. 
  
  Once removed from the force field. The subject is aware of the change in environment dynamics but cannot directly commune with the motor system
  as such, the explicit strategy is dominanting the implicit strategy untill subject has deadapted.
  
  Question: 
  
          1) was the model being changed? or was a new model being created when adapting and de adapting?
  
          2)if adaptation and deadaptation increases in speed, is reflective of improved transition between models or suppression of one?
