Are spontaneous destabilizations dumb? they sure do look like they are. How challenege that basic assumption. How often does the motor 
do dumb things? quite rarely actually. When do these dumb phenonomons happen? usually in the context of "lack of information/misinformation"

Spontaneous suggests an occurance of an event in the absence of input. the observation the spontaneous destabilizations dramatically drop
off after initial learning experience is evidence that they cannot be spontaneous.

The crux of the theory is built on the idea of "Insufficient information"
    This insufficiency of information can be due to many things (e.g., daydreaming, lapse in concentration, sensory overload).
    In essence, this means that the motor system is operating under a state of "insufficient information". we cannot directly communicate with 
    motor system. When in a rotating room, even though i know the room is rotating and that I have to make adaptations, I cannot directly inform 
    the motor system to make precise adjustments even if i knew exactly what adjustments are needed. the motor system adapts at its own rate.
In the context of the Visual inverted pendulum paradigm, at any given point of time (t), if a gap of information flow occurs, the motor system 
based on existing limited knowledge, knows the objective is bring the pendulum to its Direction of balance. Thus, at any given point of time, 
in the absence of feedback (visual in this case), the motor system can adopt 3 solutions (categorical for sake of simplicity). 
                  (1): do nothing. we dont know what is the optimal input and there is a small chance it wont crash.
                  (2): feedforward left deflection : see comments for (3)
                  (3): feedforward right deflection : chances are, left or right deflection has approximately 50% to save the pendulum
                  
If there is a 50% chance to save the pendulum given this strategic gamble, why do we only see crashes? because of the way we define 
"spontaenous destabilizations". Assume that 50 gambles were executed. and E(p)=.5, approximately 25 of those gambles result in a crash and the 
other 25 in saves (pendulum not crashing). We won't see the saves. we only look at the times the gamble fails and thus label them as spontaenous destabilizations
That is, we only look at the times the gamble fails.

Why does spontaenous destabilizations dramatically reduce after first few trials? because the motor system has learnt to organize/internalize the 
model dynamics of the VIP. Once the motor system has a sufficient understanding of the VIP model dynamics, it can extrapolate better in interruptions
to feedback (i.e., the motor system is better able to extrapolate in finer details what the pendulum is during even after a disruption of feedback

**the more the motor system knows (either by feedback or experience), the less it has to guess.

Predictions:  1)Reduction in relevant information will increase occurances of spontaneous destabilizations in naive subjects. (e.g., concurrent distractor task)
              2)adding information will decrease the occurances of spontaneous destabilizations in naive subjects (e.g., N(spontaneous destab) in mars < N(spontaneous destab) in VIP
              3)changing model dynamics should increase the number of spontaneous destabilizations in experienced subjects (i.e., motor system adapts at its own rate, you cannot explicity adapt even if you consciously know)
              4)abs(magnitude) of user initated perturbation should be correlated with abs(velocity) of pendulum at moment of spontaneous destabilizations
              5)participant's (**motor system**) ability to extrapolate a pendulum's outcome in the absence of feedback is a measure of the degree a model has been internalized (problem: motor system and higher consciouness do not communicate well)
              
              
              Modulated by: how adverse is a participant to crashing
                            how motivated the participant is to not crashing
                            
