Study idea and background - 9/29/2019

Spontaneous destabilizations (SpontD) aren't actually spontaneous, spontaneous refers to the occurance of an event without any input. The observation
that SpontD decreases as a function of experience is supportive of that notion. Although SpontD commands appear "dumb". I argue that they
represent a compensatory mechanism by the motor system. I will explain in detail below

1.1 (basis of the theory): Insufficient informtaion

    In the context of "insufficient task relevant information", either due to (e.g., lapse in concentration, sensory overload, multitasking etc...)
    the motor system is operating under a state of "insufficient information". In the context of the VIP (visual inverted pendulum), the subject understands
    the objective of the task (avoid falling past the crash boundary and stay as close to the direction of balance). The motor system knows 
    that it must input some joystick command to avoid crashing but does not know which direction or magnitude to input due to the
    lack of information. As such, the Motor system may resort to gambling. In other words, in a feedforward sense, the motor system can 
    input a left or right deflection. Given the dynamics of the VIP, this feedforward gamble is likely to produce a higher 
    percentage of desirable outcome compared to simply doing nothing.
    
      (1): Feedforward left deflection: see comments for (2)
      (2): Feedforward right deflection: chances are, a left or right deflection has a higher percentage of a desirable outcome compared to
           doing nothing.
    
1.2 (Inability to directly communicate with motor system)
    
    The motor system adapts at its own pace. In the example of the rotating room that generates a coriolis force. Although an experienced
    subject may deconstruct the process and understand the exact adaptations needed to counter the force field, these explicit strategies 
    do not map onto the motor system 1:1. That is, even if you knew exactly what movement adjustments are needed to counteract the force field,
    the motor system will still need to make its own implicit adaptation.
    
    1.2.1
    
    The evidence of aftereffects following adaptation to a force field, that is, the occurances of these adaptive solutions in the absence
    of perturbation (e.g., force field) suggests that the adaptation of internal models is an implicit process that remain inaccessible
    to awareness/consciousness.
   

1.3 (Why do we only see failed outcomes from the gamble)
    
    The reason we only see SpontD is because of the way we define it. If there is a 50% chance of a chance occuring (assuming that left or right
    deflections have a 50% to save the pendulum). In 50 instances of gamble, E(p)=.5, 25 of those gambles are likely to result in a crash and vice versa
    We dont see the "saves" because of how we define SpontD. That is, the saves are lost in the phase plot.

1.4 (Why do SpontD drop off after experience progresses?)

    As the motor system learns the dynamics of the model, it slowly assimilates it. That is, the motor system is able to internalize the model
    to some approximation. This only occurs through motor system experience (explicit strategy given to a naive subject may not work). As the
    participant gets better, he/she is able to utilize the internalized model to extrapolate model information during these "insufficient information"
    periods. As such, the need to adopt such a compensatory mechanism such as gambling is greatly diminished.
    In short, the more the motor system knows, the less it has to guess.
    
    1.4.1
    
    Internal model : subjective representation of environment dynamics within a frame of reference. This model attempts to mimic the input
    -output relationship of the system being perturbed. Improvement would suggest the model becomes more accurate at representation and more
    sensitive to prediction errors
    
    *More Forward model rather than an inverse model
    
1.5 (Predictions)
    
    1) Reduction in relevant information will increase occurances of SpontD in naive subjects (e.g., people in Mars (visual + prioprocetive) should outperform VIP)
    2) Adding Information will decrease occurances of SpontD in naive subjects (reversal of (1))
    3) Changing model dynamics will increase number of errors in experienced subjects (Participants wont make SponD because they will simply
       extrapolate based on their current internatized model.)
    4) Absolute magnitude of user initated perturbation will correlate with absolute velocity of pendulum (i.e., participants are making the correct
       magnitude deflection, but in the wrong direction in SpontD).
    5) Participant's motor system's ability to extrapolate pendulum outcome in the absence of feedback is a measure of how accurately their motor system
       has internalize the VIP model.
    6) Giving experienced subjects information/explicit knowledge of the changes to a model will not change the motor system's rate of adaptation
       Visuomotor adaptation is independent from explicit knowlege of a model
    7) EEG would display ERNs in response to the SpontD events. but the preceeding activity may reflect the process of decision
    8) A participant with a higher Assimilation Index (AI), a measure of model internalization will outperform a participant with a lower
       AI.    
    
Study design - 9/26/2019

1.6 (Manipulating the flow of information)

    Scintillating dots(1) vs distractor task(2) (both reduce the amount of information present but through different mechanisms), 
  
     Scintillating dots(1) amount of information limited is the same for everyone
     Dstractor task(2) amount of information is dependent on ability to multitask/attend two stimuli

1.7 (Study procedure)

    1.7.1 (stimulus delivery)
    
          Show participants a VIP setup with random parameters for both (velocity, rand(10:30) degrees per second) and (position, rand(-20:+20) degrees)
          a small window of frames (e.g., 0ms to 500ms) are shown to the participant (e.g., after two factors (velocity and position) have been randomized, 
          a masking background will be played for 1000ms and participants will transition to the estimation phase.
          NOTE: outcome pendulum shouldnt be within 10 degrees of the direction of balance (if so, participant may opt to produce
          no joystick input)
          
          1.7.1.1 Control setup
          
          Have participants watch the whole playout of the randomized VIP scenario and have them estimate pendulum speed at the direction of balance (no input)
          (or any point of interest). This will provide a baseline to compare motor(implicit) and verbal(explicit) to.
          
          1.7.1.2 Catch trial
          
          Show randomized VIP scenario with randomized position but zero velocity.
          
    1.7.2 (Participant estimation phase (motor estimation)) 
    
          Participants make both motor and "perceptual" estimations of pendulum outcome 1,2,3,4,5 seconds after scenario feedback stops half participants will make motor estimation first and vice versa (counterbalance)
          During the motor estimation phase, participants after viewing the randomized VIP scenario (randomized velocity and position), will
          make a feedforward, single pulse input of the joystick when the pendulum is at dob will be made to place the pendulum as close to the direction of balance as possible
          The Dependent variable will be the degree/s (velocity) of the pendulum at the Direction of balance under the shown scenario
          
          1.7.2.1 Testing experienced subjects
          
          Experienced subjects will be asked to estimate a randomized VIP scenario first (they should perform well compared to naive subjects)
          and change the model dynamics (e.g., joystick gain/fall constant). Compare initial error and deviation at steady state adaptation. 
          Record rate of adaptation (time from when adaptation begins to steady state) NOTE: ??how to determine when adaptation start??
          
    1.7.3 (Participant estimation phase (perceptual estimation)
    
          Participants make both motor and "perceptual" estimations of pendulum outcome 1,2,3,4,5 seconds after scenario feedback stops
          half participants will make motor estimation first and vice versa (counterbalance)
          During the "perceptual" estimation phase, participants after viewing the randomized VIP scenario (randomized velocity and position), will
          make verbal/written estimation of how fast the pendulum will be moving (velocity in degrees/s) at the Direction of balance under the shown
          scenario.
          
          
    1.7.4 (Participant pool and analysis)
    
          n=50 half will begin with motor estimation and half will begin with "perceptual" estimations.
          
          Absolute difference between motor and "perceptual" estimations = (D) disparity, if (D) for SecDelay=1 is non-sig (single sample ttest), label as low disparity, 
          else, label as high disparity.
          
          Assimilation Index (AI) for motor estimation and verbal estimation will be compared within subjects. then between subjects.
          
          ANOVA 1 way for 1,2,3,4,5 second delay estimations within subjects. Then pool all subjects data for 1 scond delay and compared against 2,3,4,5 seconds
         
          
 1.8 (study metrics)
 
      1.8.1 Assimilation index (measure of model's "accuracy")
 
      Participant's motor and "perceptual" estimations will be averaged to produce a single index. (AI) assimilation index = 1000/(Secdelay*dPOI)
      SecDelay = number of seconds after viewing visual stimulus that the estimate was made at
      dPOI = degree/s disparity from the point of interest (e.g., subject estimates pendulum velocity as -30degree/s at the DOB but actual
      velocity is -24 degrees/s, dPOI would be 6 degrees/s
      
      1.8.2 Plasticity index (measure of model's speed to adaptation and rate of adaptation)
      
      Given that the motor system in a feedback loop, compares desired outcome with reality, (PI) would be a measure of how long it
      takes participants to detect that a new strategy/model is needed to achieve the end goal AND how fast the model is adapted to
      new model parameters (note: "ADAPT" refers to strategy steady state regardless of actual score)
          
      
 1.9 (Applications)
      Objective way to measure motor system's internatization of the model
      Can AI and PI be used to estimate performance?
      
      1.9.1 How to exploit our inability to directly modulate our internal model 
    
        1) Although basketball nets are standardized across the nation for competitions, festival/carnival games do not. Specifically for 
        the purpose of exploiting this concept (1.2). By making the basketball net slightly higher or lower, there is a discrepancy between our 
        internal and external model (internal - what our motor system has learnt. external - what reality actually is). Even if this discrepancy
        is known to the subject, adjustments are hard because the internal model has been so well learnt that the motor system is more robust to change
        and since we cannot directly interface with the motor system, we cannot make direct adjustments to our internal model. Given sufficient practice
        with the new moel, these adaptations at the motor system's level can occur. But the key here is that the motor system adapts at its own pace.
      
      

       
Questions:

    Question: Distinction of skill acquisition and adaptation? 
        Answer: skill acquisition is learning from scratch. adaptation is adjustment of existing knowledge
            Problem: How can we distinguish between whether a subject creates a new model, or adapts an existing one, or stitches together a new
                     one from small snippets of many models?
